Dzogchen, in the new month's teaching, they always summarize that. So I follow with that first
steps.
And that is what the great Master Dzung Timba said.
If you keep these three principal nobles and put your practice within these three principal nobles,
then all the practice comes so perfect, beautifully, it's going to make the fulfillment of it.
Follow your wishes and help with the other things.
Those three nobles.
Our great Kiki Padhe Gerberji mentioned so many times, and so do I'm repeating those words,
and not just also Kiki Padhe Gerberji said, but this is Dzung Timba's teaching,
not just Dzung Timba said, but all the other great Master Dzung Timba said too.
And those are known as the beginning nobles, middle nobles, and concluding nobles.
And we have that noble good, beginning noble, middle noble, and concluding nobles.
Beginning noble is the foundation, foundation. That foundation practices.
Foundation, how we start foundation. So that means it has a head, it has a body, it has final
accomplishment.
So then whole package, whole practice comes perfect.
The beginning noble or the first noble foundation is the motivation.
With the motivation, taking the rough, developing the body together.
At the same time reflecting the four thoughts, as I said the other day, and you all know four
thoughts.
We did four thoughts and filled strong presence of the Murugan Masambhava Buddha,
all the religious masters. Really it's strong, immensely devotions, joy, and appreciations.
Appreciations, inside reference, develop the body together.
Even though we already may be talking about the body together, but activating the body together.
And follow the instructions.
Since you are practicing, if you are practicing, there is prayer.
Join those prayers. Those prayers are not just that you are joining, but you are reflecting meaning
to the heart.
Meaning to the heart is in a way reminding of what you are going to activate in your heart.
Not what you say, but what you are going to activate in the heart.
Rapho and Bodhijal. So that is the beginning.
And I am making those already, and you know already, it's not something I am talking to you.
The Middle Noble is the principal part of the practices.
With that virtual motivation as a foundation, now you begin the practices.
Practicing is what F.S. can't wait to spoke, as his own union, according to his teaching,
we spoke about the zukti teachings.
But if he is practicing zukti practices, I will say in here, he is going to say, do guru yoga
practices.
Some guru yoga practices, if you have time, if you have practice, a bundle of practices,
do those bundle of practices. It's not that long.
This is the bundle of practices. A bundle is so condensate.
For example, each of those, three times, three times, in the presence of Rapho Ditri, or the
enlightenment.
Three times, three times, times, after, then came to the guru yoga,
and giant those pray, short pray in the second of earth, that giant three times,
and additionally giant three times, seven line prayers. Seven line prayers.
Feel the stone presence of Gurbian Masambha, and the stone devotions.
And Gurbian Masambha import him into all the Buddhas, dharma, sangha,
of all the times, and ten directions.
Really, that means, Gurbian Masambha's embodiment, loving kindness, compassion, versatile power,
of all the enlightenment, came in one single state as Gurbian Masambha.
Gurbian Masambha transcendent, there was the rainbow body of love and compassion and vastness.
And radiating that power and energy, light, to all the beings,
and particularly how that light is coming to you.
And how your body, your channel, wind, essence, element, or vital essence,
all completely blisses, with that, and then of the same time,
with the stone, again the connection, giant three times, seven line prayers.
Afterward, you giant, then, maybe every time,
one mala of the mantra of Gurbian Masambha, otherwise, maybe 21 times, whatever you think.
And during that, toward the end, so many blisses, lights coming from Gurbian Masambha,
white light, red light, blue light, in the multiple light,
one after another coming to you, and it's completely blessed,
and completely blessed, the entire universe, and all every living beings.
It means, finally Gurbian Masambha dissolved into the light, and that merged to you,
or came to the pramukaram chakra, to the center of the channel,
and merged to your heart center, merged with your own awareness.
Rupa tumbak, raktumba, clear light luminosity state of your own Rupa state.
Merged inseparable. Now, and now you do the Jogji meditation, as we were.
Relaxing that status, rest in that status, five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes.
During that time, it's a little bit difficult to stable, mind is not staying, maybe you're
concentrated.
Do the concentration meditation for maybe two, three minutes.
Concentrate into the object. Concentrate into the light, in the mental income,
where you're like, oh, breathe, oh, that information.
Concentrate the breathing, oh, maybe five minutes.
That will tame the mind, brain. It will tame the mind.
And do that, that. And then again, do the Jogji.
What is Jogji meditation? Jogji meditation is, again, we make it many times.
Times, but it's generally what I'm teaching, it is vipassana. Jogji is vipassana.
But when we discuss where we're going to do that vipassana,
we're not going to see all this emptiness, outside everything is empty.
You don't have to think that everything is empty.
Just look to your mind. Look to your mind.
This is the famous direct assuring world, that assuring to the true nature status.
That world, W-O-R-D, the world. It's assuring.
I think in Zen teaching, what do you call it? It's the same. It's powerful.
Look to your mind. You can even ask, what is mind, where is mind?
If you ask that question to yourself and look to the mind,
what are we going to find? There's nothing to find.
It's totally clear, clear.
And in the teachings, say luminous cities, in the Jogji teachings, luminous cities.
It's not blank, clear. How that luminous city and the empty is.
I use it always as an example, I thought that's kind of good.
In the autumn morning, clear autumn morning, when the sun comes,
in the sky, the dawn comes in the sky.
What the sky is loose, completely brilliant, open, and vast, and spacious.
But there's nothing to walk.
That is, maybe go quite close examples of this clear, light luminous city
of the great vastness and emptiness of the river.
Relax in that status.
When you see that, or when you behold that or see that, that is supreme seeing.
There's nothing further to go.
And we're trying to go further than that.
We are manipulating by conceptions.
It is conception, then.
Conservation is known as duality.
And then we spoil the nature with it is.
Relax in that status.
How you're going to relax? Relax in body, relax in energy,
relax in wind, and relax in mind is on that nature of status.
That is jocchi teaching.
We went through this, went through this, and that is jocchi teaching.
So two practices. Practice that state as long as you have time.
As I said, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, or whatever you have time.
And when you feel that, then that counts as the third novel.
So beginning novel, middle novel, and third novel.
Third novel is known as aspiration or aspiration and dedication.
Aspiration and dedication.
If I say simply what that means, aspiration and dedication is no other than it is bodhicitta.
Again, bodhicitta.
Kindness compared for all living beings.
I practice it for this half an hour or 20 minutes or whatever that,
when I do whatever I want, any merit or whatever,
may it become the great cause and the condition to bring joy and peace,
harmony, award, peace, peace, and then balance the environment,
and really wish strongly that in heart, and then dedicate that merit.
And for all living beings without any exceptions or without any discriminations.
So that means good wish and sharing your merits with them.
That is known as the ending novels.
Beginning novel, middle novel, concluding novels.
Then your practice becomes full circle, completely novel.
Novel, and then your meditation is complete, your practice is complete.
Now you walk into the world. All involves meditation.
Again carry love and compassion, bodhicitta, thought, all living beings,
and see all this is like beauty instead of you can.
Otherwise, all this meditation, all this dream like that, have that realization.
And this is reality, this really dream.
Because even that novel we understand, the contents are discovered.
It's all a magic, all a dream, all energies.
That's what in the Buddha's teachings he said,
all these dreams, all these magic like, all these rupalaki moon in the water legs,
all these mirage like.
Those, the British comparative teacher use the matter of terminology to bring this realization
of this way things are on the relative truths.
And then perform the good activities according you can do.
And hold that as we discussed yesterday or that, the conduct.
Follow the conduct, nice. Good is good, bad is good on the relative level.
Follow those things. And trying to do good things, trying to avoid bad things.
And good and bad also start from the, again from the heart.
When our heart is good, it's good.
The heart is bad or negative, it's bad.
That's a symbol, that's good. And every kind of key word that is known as Buddha's teaching is good
practices.
And your practice, you're improving, you're benefiting to the others and benefiting to yourself.
So that is my brief talk for today and thank you very much everyone again.
Thank you for coming and the body is spreading.